# Pizza Sales Performance Analysis || SQL & Power BI

## Introduction and Data Background
This dataset reports the sales performance of a pizza store. Overall, in the period from January to December 2024, this restaurant recorded 21,350 orders for 49,594 pizzas, generating a revenue of $817K. The dataset shows the unit price of each pizza name and their respective size, as well as the order date on which the pizza was sold

## Business Questions

### Revenue Analysis

1. How many types of pizza were sold in the recorded period (pizza_name)? How many categories are they sorted into? What is the total revenue generated by each category of pizza?
2. On average, how many pizzas were sold per order? How much revenue was created per order and per day?
3. How does the revenue trend over different months? Are there any noticeable seasonal patterns?
4. What is the average revenue per pizza size?

### Order Patterns

1. What is the distribution of orders over the days of the week? Are there certain days with higher sales?
2. What time of day do most orders occur?
3. Are there any trends in the number of orders over the course of the year?

### Customer Preferences

1 Which were the top 5 pizza types that were ordered the most? What were their respective revenue?
2. How many pizza sizes are offered? Which size was the most favorable? Are there any combinations of pizza types and sizes that are particularly popular?

## Key findings

### Revenue Analysis
1. For the recorded period, 32 pizza types were recoded which were categorized into 4 category: Classic, Supreme, Veggie and Chicken.
The total revenue generated by each category of pizza:
2. On average, 2.3 pizzas were sold per order, generating $38/order and $2248/day. 
4. How does the revenue trend over different months? Are there any noticeable seasonal patterns?
5. What is the average revenue per pizza size?
   
### Order Patterns

### Customer Preferences
